Hi my name is Tristan at the Austin Martial
Arts Academy. We’re online at http://www.austinmartialarts.com.
Okay we’re on to our next kick here in the
kickboxing series, this is the side kick.
We’re going to continue with the focus mitts,
I’m the coach, I hold the mitts against
my body and then I pop them up for my partner.
But in learning the kick I’m just going
to hold it out, stand off to the side here;
now remember there are four parts to the kick.
The first is the chamber, so she brings the
knee up, now there’s the extension, recoil
and then you place the foot back down. Okay
that’s a sidekick. In order to get a good
side kick she’s got to rotate the hips,
so you’ll see she drew the leg up like a
front kick at first, then recoils. Let’s
look at that one more time, notice how she
twists the hips, it looks like she’s going
to do a front kick right at you but in fact
it goes out to the side. And I’m going to
hold her here, notice how the toes are below
the heal, a lot of times we’ll see this
on side kicks, with the foot turned up like
that a lot of torque on your knee. That’s
a no-no and it doesn’t have any power. Twist
your hips over, that’s a side kick. Okay.
And recoil. She might slide up a little bit
to get some momentum that you can add to your
kick. Okay, now you can through in a spinning
side kick real quick, she’ll kick with her
rear leg. Just like on the shin kick and the
round kick you must turn your front foot out;
this is a big no-no we see. People are hurting
their knees because they’re not turning
their foot out. Girls if you’re in those
kick boxing classes and you’re throwing
out a million reps as fast as can be, slow
down and learn to kick right. Here it is,
watch closely. She’s going to spin the foot,
watch the side kick. I’m going to put her
on the heavy bag real quick. Okay, there’s
your side kick.